in the previous videos we created the
database that our app will use and wrote
the code to create the tasks table and
we also added a few test records now the
app will use a content provider to
access the database and we've seen how
to use a content provider earlier in the
course so it's now time to see how to
write a content provider so let's get
started with that
now once you've seen the code working
it's definitely well worth your time
reviewing the ER google documentation
about content providers let's just go to
that to link in a browser alright so the
first section in here really helps you
decide if you need a content provider
we've got a few reasons there and
whether you need one or not now in our
case we're going to be using a cursor
loader to retrieve the data from the
database without blocking our UI thread
now as we do need one of the listed
features here we're going to use a
content provider for this app so Google
are now suggesting that developers
should use the new room persistence
library rather than content providers
now you might think that's a strange
thing for me to say when we're about to
see how to implement a content provider
but there's a good reason why we're
sticking with it the rune persistence
library is certainly exciting but at the
moment it's not completely suitable when
you have linked to tables there's no
support for views for example any
attempt to use sequel views with the
rune persistence library will be an ugly
hack also because the library is still
evolving there's no guarantee that the
hacks would continue to work there are
ways to work around that
avoid using views basically but for that
reason we're recommending at least at
this stage you stick with content
providers when using linked tables we
are watching developments carefully and
we'll keep an eye on things but for nill
though we're going to see how to
implement a content provider so let's
start by you're creating a new class now
back to where Android studio so for now
though I'm going to create
a new class Kotlin vowel class and we'll
call this one app provider and we'll
specify it as a class not that it really
matters and we're going to put a comment
here relating to what the class is all
about and we'll say it's the provider or
the task of time we wrap and this is the
only class that knows about and in
square brackets I'm going to add an app
database and you can see now that that's
now a clickable link that about now that
I've actually added that and this is why
it's useful with a documentation because
now that it's clickable I can flip
through that and get straight back to
the class noting that this link is now
active
you know app database class I can click
back to there so Android studio doesn't
take care of a lot of that documentation
when programming in Java but it doesn't
do such a good job with Kotlin at the
moment all right so I expect that to
improve them over time so it's well
worth including Kay doc comments in your
classes all right so when related in
relation to this task to these so class
we need to extend content provider so
let's do that so we've got the usual
arrow there which would be relating to
functions not being implemented let's go
ahead and implement the misty various
sub functions I'm going to select them
let's enter all right so as you can see
there's quite a few there that have been
implemented and it's going to be
interesting to lock some information
when the functions in this class get
called so I'm gonna go ahead and create
the normal google usual the usual log
tag that we create for a class private
Const thou tag equals a provider next
I'm going to add a few constants and a
year awry for the content Authority I'll
let them first and then we'll look at
what they're all for private Val content
and a straw thority equals and that's
going to be learned programming
Don Academy dot Tosca timer
don't provider they want a private const
val tasks equals 100 private commenced
val tasks underscore ID equals 101
private oops
picks out previous line private const
val timings is equal to 200 private
const val timings underscore ID equals
201 in private const val task durations
is equal to 400 and private Const val
task and let's call durations and the
score ID equals 401 then last we want to
val content and let's go authority
underscore your i colon space your i is
equal to e RI dot pars in parentheses
then it's going to be double quotes
content colon forward slash forward
slash dollar and we'll select our
content and it's called a fight
authority each const alright so a good
place to understand what these constants
are is the google guide that we've
already opened up so let's go back to
the browser and there becomes our scroll
down a little bit here we've got a
section on designing content your eyes
this one here and that explains about
these your eyes so the authority is the
name of the provider and must be unique
that's why we use the package name with
dot provider appended to it package name
should also be unique when you come to
deploy your apps so they form a good
basis for the authority as well now when
other classes access the content
provider and that by the way includes
other apps as well as classes in our app
though user a URI to make life easier
the content and the score Authority and
a school URI has been set to public the
default in Kotlin go back to my code and
have a look you can see that on line 28
now that lets it be used outside of our
app because i've marked
as public now the Android contacts
contract class is also exposed it's your
eye and we used it when we called the
content resolvers query method in our
previous content resolver app instead of
having to find the correct uri we just
used contacts contract contacts dot
content and let's call your I so what is
a URI and what's this eurorider possible
about again on line 28 well a URI is a
Uniform Resource identifier and I'm sure
you'll be familiar with one particular
type of you arrive the URLs or Uniform
Resource locators that we use to access
resources on the World Wide Web so let's
so go to the browser again open a new
tab and we'll do a quick search for URI
it returns a number of useful links here
but one that we want to have a look at
well scroll down till we see with this
one here RFC 39.86 Uniform Resource
identifier so I'm going to click on that
so this is the elite to the original
spec in our RFC 3986 produced by Tim
berners-lee who's credited with being
the inventor of the World Wide Web
RFC or request for comments documents
tend to be very wordy but there's
generally no need to read the entire
document if you wanted to write your own
euro parser and you'd have to read and
understand everything in this document
but to learn just a little bit about the
format of your eyes what we can do is to
scroll down a little bit and skip
straight to section 3 up here by
clicking them on the link in the table
of comments I've got contents rather
another section here under syntax
components has a very useful diagram of
the various parts that make up a you
arrive so a euro starts with a scheme
and you'll be used to schemes like HTTP
or HTTPS that are used in URLs to access
content on the web
the URL is a specific type of your I and
conforms to this specification other
schemes you may have seen our FTP for
uploading and downloading files and file
used to display a local file in
browser now section 3.1 if we just bring
that up on the screen there that
describes the syntax for a scheme so
basically a scheme must start with a
letter followed by any combination of
letters numbers the plus symbol
full-stop or - in practice they tend to
mainly contain just letters the scheme
that Android content providers use is
content so I scrolling back up to where
syntax components again the next part of
the URI is the higher part this part
here which starts with two slashes
followed by the authority and a path now
when you enter HTTP colon forward slash
forward slash WWD Google com into your
browser's address bar the scheme is HTTP
your browser parses that out of the Euro
and knows that it must open a secure
connection it then passes out the
authority which in that example is wwo
com4 URLs which again are a specialized
form of your eyes the authority mapped
to an IP address that identifies the
server to connect to the the page we've
currently look at we're currently
looking at has the authority tools that
IETF org which currently maps to an IP
address we can check that by standing a
command prompt or terminal session so
I'm going to do now and then typing in
the command we should work on all
operating systems
I can type ping tools don't iet F dot
all
alright I'm just going to stop that now
and note that today's command doesn't
work for all Ural authorities for
security reasons many servers have been
configured so that they don't respond to
ping requests the authority can also
include a network port as well as the
username useful for sending emails for
example so for the HTTP and HTTPS
schemes the authority specifies the
location of a computer service on the
network now for our content scheme the
authority specifies a content provider
all right so it's going to close up to
here next comes the path separated
separated from the authority by slash so
the path itself can contain many
segments each separated by a slash so
the path for this particular web
document and we can see that in the URL
up here is HTML slash RFC 3986 for the
Euro eyes that we use in our content
provider the path contains the name of
the table and may also contain the ID of
a row in that table so that's really all
we need to know in order to understand
the euro rise in our content provider
but as you can see there can also be a
query and a fragment these last two
sections here now we've used the query
part of a URI when we specified the tags
and other parameters in the URL for our
flickr browser app when used in a URL a
fragments interpreted as meaning a
particular location within a HTML
document so if this page looking again
at the URL as a section named section -
3 now we added that to the URL to get
directly to this section 3 of the
document I want to say we added it we
click the link now one thing that may
confuse you later
is the use of a hash to separate the
fragment from the path when we come to
parse our your eyes shortly you'll see
the hash character used as a wildcard to
represent any number now this is not the
same meaning our euro eyes won't contain
fragments so bear that in mind
the hash character in our code just as a
wild-card for numbers and not as a
fragment separator to head to the
confusion will be using fragments in our
app and they've got nothing at all to do
with your eyes I'll talk about them when
we come to use them but once again bear
in mind that the same word is being used
for a completely different thing in the
Android fragments have nothing to do
with your eyes alright so there's a lot
more in this document and it's certainly
not going to win any prizes for a
literature but this extensible
definition of your eyes has allowed the
World Wide Web to continue working and
involving for nearly 30 years
so if it seems overly complicated bear
in mind that the spec itself was
intended to be future proof
there was no cloud back in 1994 but this
same system is used by Amazon Web
Services for example by specifying WSS
for the skinning so that's really all we
need to know or understand about your
eyes because Android provides a Euro I
match a class that we can use to make
matching owl your eyes easier so let's
go back to Android studio and then we're
going to create a variable to hold a
urimatcher so I'm going to add that
inside the class and then we're going to
create that variable private Bell your
eye matcher
boy lazy I'm just going to press ENTER
there to accept that rest of that code
and then print in the left or right
curly braces I'm going to type build you
arrive matchup which will be a function
we're going to call and in fact we'll
implement that in the next slide so
private fun build your eye matcher
parentheses : in this URI matcher
and open it left or right curly brace is
there and I'm going to start with the
log so I log dot d parentheses ter comma
build you awry matchup starts
and we're gonna do Val matcha is equal
to your eye matcha in parentheses your
eye matcha dot no one has called match
then we're going to return matchup so
we've set up now our urimatcher this is
one way to do it by creating a function
that returns a euro matter object now I
think that was a good use for a lazy
delegate to ensure that the function is
called the first time we try to use our
euro matcher and that's why we've used
by lazy for our variable now we're
filling in the details of that function
shortly when we've discussed what it's
going to do I want to switch back though
to the Google documentation again in the
browser and just below this note about
designing Authority there's this thing
about designing a path structure now we
can create your eyes to provide access
to individual tables by pending the name
or the table name to the authority now
for example in the document you can see
here they've got comdata example dot yep
nom dot provider and a forward slash
table one for the tasks in our code the
full euro I would be content colon
forward slash forward slash learn
programming dot Academy task timer dot
provider forward slash tasks and for the
other tables once we've created them we
just changed tasks for the name of the
table we want to use the you arrived for
the timings table for example would be
learned programming done Academy doc
task timer dot provider forward slash
timings so our content provider will be
getting different your eyes for the
different tables and views which means
we need some way to decide which table
is contained in the euro
now we could parse out the information
ourselves it's basically a case of
extracting the name that appears after
the slash in the euro but Google have
created this URI match a class to do
that for us so the document here
describes what we have to do
specifically in this handling content
your iid section now note that there can
be an ID at the end of the euro which
makes parsing slightly more difficult
so this handling content your iid
section explains why we need an
underscore ID column in our tables the
provider uses that when it needs to
provide a single record or row matching
an ID and the cursor adapter needs a
column called underscore ID to work when
the user taps an item in a list view or
recyclerview
it's the ID that's used to retrieve the
corresponding row from the databases
using the and the score ID column and
scrolling down here we can see that
under a Content URI patterns that
there's a description which also
includes a link to the Euro I match a
class up here and we'll have a look at
that in more detail in the next video